.. _faq:

======================================
Frequently Asked Questions
======================================



**Q:** What ``Enrichr`` ``database`` are supported?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

**A:** Support modEnrich (https://amp.pharm.mssm.edu/modEnrichr/) .
Now, Human, Mouse, Fly, Yeast, Worm, Fish are all supported.


**Q:** Use custom defined ``GMT`` file input in Jupyter ?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

**A:**  argument ``gene_sets`` accept ``dict`` input. This is useful when define your own gene_sets. An example dict looks like this:

.. code:: python

    gene_sets = {
              "term_1": ["gene_A", "gene_B", ...],
              "term_2": ["gene_B", "gene_C", ...],
               ...
              "term_100": ["gene_A", "gene_T", ...]
             }


APIs support dict object input: ``gsea``, ``prerank``, ``ssgsea``, ``enrichr``



Q: How to use ``Yeast`` database in ``gseapy.enrichr()``?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Because some library names are the same in different ``Enrichr`` ``database``, you have to set an additional augment ``organism`` when no use **Human**

.. code:: python

    gss = gseapy.get_library_name(organism='Yeast')
    enr = gseapy.enrichr(gene_list=...,
                        gene_sets=gss, 
                        organism='Yeast', # don't forget to set organism="Yeast"
                        )



**Q:** How to use ``Yeast`` database in ``gseapy.prerank()``?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

There is no augment ``organism`` in ``prerank``, ``gsea``, ``ssgea``, but you could input these Enrichr libraries as follow:

.. code:: python

    # get libraries you'd like to use
    gss = gseapy.get_library_name(organism='Yeast')
    # get a custom gmt_dict
    gmt_dict = gseapy.parser.gsea_gmt_parser('GO_Biological_Process_2018', organism='Yeast')
    # run 
    prn_res = gseapy.prerank( ..., gene_sets=gmt_dict, ...)




**Q:** How to save plots using ``gseaplot``, ``barplot``, ``dotplot``,``heatmap`` in Jupyter ? 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

**A:** e.g. gseaplot(..., ofname='your.plot.pdf'). That's it


**Q:** What ``cutoff`` mean in functions, like ``enrichr()``, ``dotplot``, ``barplot`` ?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**A:** This argument control the terms (e.g FDR < 0.05) that will be shown on figures, not the result table output.



**Q1:** ssGSEA missing p value and FDR?  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

**A:**  The original ssGSEA alogrithm will not give you pval or FDR, so, please ignore the gseaplot generated by ``ssgsea``. It's useless and misleading, therefore, fdr, and pval are not shown on the plot. If you'er seeking for ssGSEA with p-value output, please see here: https://github.com/broadinstitute/ssGSEA2.0  
Actually, ssGSEA2.0 use the same method with GSEApy to calculate P-value, but FDR is not. 


**Q:** What the difference between ssGSEA and Prerank
-----------------------------------------------------------------------


**A:** In short, 
-  prerank is used for comparing **two group of samples** (e.g. control and treatment), where the gene ranking are defined by your custom rank method (like t-statistic, signal-to-noise, et.al).
- ssGSEA is used for comparing individual samples to the rest of all, trying to find the gene signatures which samples shared the same (use ssGSEA when you have a lot of samples).

The statistic between prerank (GSEA) and ssGSEA are different.
Assume that we have calculated  each `running enrichment score` of your ranked input genes, then

- es for GSEA: `max(running enrichment scores)` or `min(running enrichment scores)`
- es for ssGSEA: `sum(running enrichment scores)`



